# A light wallet

Which kind of design for a [wallet](3.13_wallets.md) could we use if we want to keep our privacy (unlike [quick-wallets](3.24_quick-wallets.md)), but we don't want to, or can't, have a full and up-to-date copy of the list of transactions in the same device, like in a [full wallet](3.20_full-wallet.md)? Well, the middle ground there, the most used type of wallet out there, is the beloved **light wallet**.

It's called light because it doesn't contain a copy of the [blockchain](3.10_blockchain.md) itself, so it doesn't occupy like 100gb of your device. It just takes as much space as a normal app. That's why it's *light*.

How does it work then? It has to connect to a [node](3.19_nodes.md) somewhere else to interact with the list of transactions. If you want to receive money, the wallet will then ask permission to read the famous chain of blocks, use your [keys](3.14_keys.md) to know what is yours and what is not, and take notes of that in your device. If you want to send money, the wallet has to connect to the node again and tell it to shout out to [miners](3.09_money-ledger.md) to include your transaction in the next block.

Pay attention to this: the light wallet asks the node for the list and checks the txs by itself. It doesn't give the node the key to check it. By working this way, we keep our privacy as receivers.

What's the catch? Since the wallet doesn't have the list, and the node doesn't have the keys, they need to communicate and *catch up* every time there's a new block. If we have a new block every two minutes, and a day went by without us using the wallet, the next time we open it it has to get 720 new blocks, check all transactions in them, and give us the green light to use the wallet for anything. If we don't use the wallet in months, that *syncing* with the current state of the blockchain can take a while. Annoying.

But it's good to have options, so our players of the Monero game can pick which *type* of wallet is better for themselves.

So far, we've had ideas on how to protect the receiver of the money, from not sharing the key with the nodes, to [using disposable addresses](3.17.01_stealth-addresses.md) to receive such money. But how can we protect the privacy of those [sending funds](3.27_sender-privacy.md) to someone else?