---
title: 1.17 Donate
---
They say the best things in life are free. I don’t agree, since most times I have to buy the cheese I want to eat. But when it comes to sunsets, kisses, and software, it makes sense. Ranbows aside, since we're talking about [using Monero](1.13_use_monero.md), why not go full circle and support its development with itself?

Monero is free because developers thought it was a cool idea and wanted to make it a real thing we can all use. Most of the apps and websites you enjoy are free and open source as well. That means that even if the original author dies, disappears, or just gets tired of it, someone else can grab the instructions and keep building upon it, modifying it, or just maintaining it in working condition.

The Monero community has a [main address for donations](https://ccs.getmonero.org/donate/) which is **`888tNkZrPN6JsEgekjMnABU4TBzc2Dt29EPAvkRxbANsAnjyPbb3iQ1YBRk1UXcdRsiKc9dhwMVgN5S9cQUiyoogDavup3H`**

The core group of developers choose what to spend that money on, paying for infrastructure and research, or complimenting proposals that don’t get enough organic funding.

Those proposals can be seen in the [Community Crowdfunding System](https://ccs.getmonero.org/) website. You can also donate even a tiny amount of Monero just to practice how to do it. This very text that you’re reading now has been funded using the CCS.

The Monero apps that you’re probably using also receive donations: wallets, websites, podcasts, news sites, and tutorials are offered free and rely on user’s generosity to thrive. Look for their address in their websites or notes. You can always join them, create something special, and [receive tips of your own](1.15_tip_monero.md).

Be a part of this by *using* Monero. And if using it sparked any curiosity as how it works under the hood, [keep exploring.](2.01_lets_do_it.md)
