---
title: 2.11 Enter the blockchain
---
The blockchain is [the long list containing every coin created and every coin sent](2.10_money_ledger.md). Put it differently, how much there is and who owns what. The name blockchain is quite literal, we’re making our list in the shape of a *chain* of *blocks*. Let’s see why it’s a great idea. More than that, it’s one of the biggest ideas of recent times.

Imagine a post-it note. This note is a small yellow square paper where we want to write the transactions made in our game. We decide that the papers should be big enough so that a reasonable number of transactions fit it, but not too big, so we don’t want a lot of space wasted if there are not enough numbers to write on it. This has an interesting side effect, instead of using a single big sheet of paper where we all write more information and therefore take longer, we use a several small ones. The way, if we have a disagreement with something written on one of them, we don’t have to write the whole huge list again, we just make that post-it into a ball, throw it in the bin, and try with a new one. But the previous ones we already agreed upon are good and set.

How can we ensure an order, that one paper came after the other? In other words: how can we always tell which one is the most recent paper? How can we be sure that nobody cheated changing the content of an old post-it, and just shuffled it back into the pile?

Our post-its are the blocks of our blockchain. And to secure it we have math on our side. We can use something called [hashes](2.12_hashes.md).
