# Accounts and addresses and subaddresses

Our Monero app has a [key](2.18-public_key.md) that can generate a public address so that someone who wants to send money can send it *somewhere*, just like we have home addresses that people can mail us stuff to. Also, this address cannot be traced back to our keys by looking at it, because we always write [one-time-only versions of those addresses](2.22-stealth_addresses.md) on the blockchain, so we’re all private and good.

But, this alone doesn’t ensure a bulletproof anonymity. If you give two different persons the same address, and they talk to each other, they can realize the person they're interacting with is the same.

Let’s explore this for a moment. A woman puts her address on her social media profile page, asking for donations. Her profile is not anonymous at all, she is using her real name and location, and she’s rising funds for a local animal care center. Even when Monero will keep who donates and how much a secret, along with what she does in the future with the money, what is not a secret is that she's using Monero (she's posting a Monero address online). So we have Sarah-the-pet-lover attached to that public address.
But Sarah also goes for a different name online, *guth3mborg*. Under that alias, she purchases access to investigative papers, and then offers them online for free access. She posts a Monero address for people to donate money to support the purchase of more documents. If she posts a different address, even if it's from the same wallet, it's all good. But if she posts publicly the same address she used for the animal care center, it'd be the same as just using the same name for both. Sarah-the-pet-lover is clearly guth3mborg-the-copyleft-activist. Busted.

Lesson learned: don't use an address in more than one place or occasion. The internet never forgets, and it's pretty easy to search for matches. Luckily, we can design our [wallets](2.14-wallets.md) so that we can get [multiple addresses from the same seed](2.30-accounts.md), and keep our different personas separated.