---
title: 2.32 Virtual bills
---
We can think and design a lot of rules and mechanisms to get money from one place to the other, but we need to come up with how that money is going to *look like*. Or better said, what would be the unit of that money?

In the real physical world, money is coins, or bills, or some old bill-like certificate. In our virtual money, we need a unit, an atom so to speak, that symbolizes our money when it's stored somewhere. Pay attention that I'm not talking about the *price*, or how many of those *units* every bill represents, 10 or 10,000. I'm talking about the "bills" themselves.

Since we're in the virtual, mass-less world, we could have virtual bills that can split and merge like the T-1000 robot made of liquid metal. That's super useful as a model, because we don't need fixed amounts on virtual bills. So every time a user needs to send, let's say 57 worth of money, our app can take a 100 bill, break it apart, create a new bill worth exactly 57, and a new "change" 43 bill for ourselves. The same happens if we have 3 bills we received previously all of them worth 20. We can merge them into a 57 new bill, send that, and create a little 3 change bill for us. 

In cryptocurrencies, those bills are called **UTXOs**. It comes from Unspent Transaction Outputs, which is nerdspeak, of course. Let's break it down.

Someone sent you money, that was a *transaction*. The money that you received came out of that transaction, it was its *output*. Until you spend that money again, it's *unspent*. So the bills that you have in your wallet are *unspent transaction outputs*. You may be thinking, we shouldn't let engineers name stuff, but remember, as a user you shouldn't be learning all this, it should be invisible to you and just work. But here we're creating a better money so for all purposes we're all engineers.
